README.md, before:



# CH552 Docker SDK

> Portable SDK for CH552 firmware development using SDCC inside Docker containers. Includes a cross-platform CLI tool (`spkg`) to simplify builds on both Linux and Windows.

## Features

- Unified CLI tool: `spkg` for Linux, macOS, and Windows (via Git Bash)
- No need to install SDCC or toolchains manually
- Fully Dockerized environment for isolated builds
- Makefile-based project system compatible with CH552/CH55x
- Example project provided in `examples/`


## Requirements

### Common (All Platforms)

- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)

### Linux/macOS

- Git
- Python 3
- Bash shell
- Superuser privileges required to run Docker

### Windows

- [Git Bash](https://gitforwindows.org/)
- Docker Desktop with WSL2 backend or Hyper-V enabled
- MinGW64 (included with Git Bash) for `make` command

> Note: Running `spkg` on Linux may require `sudo` if your user is not part of the `docker` group. You can add your user with:  
> `sudo usermod -aG docker $USER && newgrp docker`

## Installation

Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:UNIT-Electronics-MX/unit_ch55x_docker_sdk.git
cd ch552-docker-sdk/spkg
chmod +x spkg
```

(Optional) Install globally:

```bash
sudo ln -s "$(pwd)/spkg" /usr/local/bin/spkg
```

You can now run `spkg` from any location.

---

## Usage

### Show help

```bash
spkg --help
```

### Build a project

```bash
spkg -p ./examples/Blink
```

### Run `make clean`, `all`, `hex`, etc.

```bash
spkg -p ./examples/Blink clean
spkg -p ./examples/Blink all
spkg -p ./examples/Blink hex
```

### Build Docker image

```bash
spkg compose
```

---

## Output

The compiled binary will be generated at:

```
examples/Blink/build/main.bin
```

You can flash it using:

- `tools/chprog.py`
- [wchusbdfu](https://github.com/DeqingSun/ch554tools)
- [WCHISPTool](https://www.wch-ic.com/downloads/WCHISPTool_Setup_exe.html)

---

## Project Structure

```
ch552-docker-sdk/
├── spkg/                   # Self-contained CLI build system
│   ├── spkg                # CLI launcher (bash script)
│   ├── Dockerfile          # SDCC-based build environment
│   └── docker-compose.yml  # Container configuration
├── examples/               # Example CH552 projects
│   └── Blink/              # Blink example (main.c, src/, tools/, Makefile)
└── README.md
```

---
## License

This SDK is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

You may freely use, modify, and distribute the SDK framework and tools (`spkg`, `compilar.sh`, etc.) under the terms of the MIT license.

### Notes on Example Projects

Some example projects inside the `examples/` directory are derived from the work of Stefan Wagner:  
[https://github.com/wagiminator/Development-Boards](https://github.com/wagiminator/CH552-USB-CDC-OLED-Terminal)

These files are licensed under the  
**Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License (CC BY-SA 3.0)**.

Each source file includes a license header stating its origin and terms of use.

You must credit the original author and distribute modifications under the same license.  
See the full license at: [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/)

Commit message:

SE0005 chore: add init project command

README.md, after:



# CH552 Docker SDK

> Portable SDK for CH552 firmware development using SDCC inside Docker containers. Includes a cross-platform CLI tool (`spkg`) to simplify builds on both Linux and Windows.

## Features

- Unified CLI tool: `spkg` for Linux, macOS, and Windows (via Git Bash)
- No need to install SDCC or toolchains manually
- Fully Dockerized environment for isolated builds
- Makefile-based project system compatible with CH552/CH55x
- Example project provided in `examples/`


## Requirements

### Common (All Platforms)

- [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)

### Linux/macOS

- Git
- Python 3
- Bash shell
- Superuser privileges required to run Docker

### Windows

- [Git Bash](https://gitforwindows.org/)
- Docker Desktop with WSL2 backend or Hyper-V enabled
- MinGW64 (included with Git Bash) for `make` command

> Note: Running `spkg` on Linux may require `sudo` if your user is not part of the `docker` group. You can add your user with:  
> `sudo usermod -aG docker $USER && newgrp docker`

## Installation

Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:UNIT-Electronics-MX/unit_ch55x_docker_sdk.git
cd ch552-docker-sdk/spkg
chmod +x spkg
```

(Optional) Install globally:

```bash
sudo ln -s "$(pwd)/spkg" /usr/local/bin/spkg
```

You can now run `spkg` from any location.

---

## Usage

### Show help

```bash
spkg --help
```

### Build a project

```bash
spkg -p ./examples/Blink
```

### Run `make clean`, `all`, `hex`, etc.

```bash
spkg -p ./examples/Blink clean
spkg -p ./examples/Blink all
spkg -p ./examples/Blink hex
```

### Build Docker image

```bash
spkg compose
```

---

### Create a New Project

To create a new project, use the `init` command:
> note: This command will create a new directory with the specified name.
```bash
 ./spkg/spkg init examples/project
 ```
## Output

The compiled binary will be generated at:

```
examples/Blink/build/main.bin
```

You can flash it using:

- `tools/chprog.py`
- [wchusbdfu](https://github.com/DeqingSun/ch554tools)
- [WCHISPTool](https://www.wch-ic.com/downloads/WCHISPTool_Setup_exe.html)

---

## Project Structure

```
ch552-docker-sdk/
├── spkg/                   # Self-contained CLI build system
│   ├── spkg                # CLI launcher (bash script)
│   ├── Dockerfile          # SDCC-based build environment
│   └── docker-compose.yml  # Container configuration
├── examples/               # Example CH552 projects
│   └── Blink/              # Blink example (main.c, src/, tools/, Makefile)
└── README.md
```

---
## License

This SDK is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

You may freely use, modify, and distribute the SDK framework and tools (`spkg`, `compilar.sh`, etc.) under the terms of the MIT license.

### Notes on Example Projects

Some example projects inside the `examples/` directory are derived from the work of Stefan Wagner:  
[https://github.com/wagiminator/Development-Boards](https://github.com/wagiminator/CH552-USB-CDC-OLED-Terminal)

These files are licensed under the  
**Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License (CC BY-SA 3.0)**.

Each source file includes a license header stating its origin and terms of use.

You must credit the original author and distribute modifications under the same license.  
See the full license at: [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/)
